>> Woodruff: TECHNOLOGY GIANTS,
LEAD BY GOOGLE AND MICROSOFT,
CALL FOR LIMITS ON THE SCOPE OF
GOVERNMENT SPYING.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD, HOW ISLAMIST
FIGHTERS IN SYRIA ARE TAKING THE
LEAD, BUT ALSO SPLINTERING THE
FIGHT TO TOPPLE THE ASSAD
REGIME.
>> Woodruff: AND, ROCK LEGEND
CARLOS SANTANA, ON A LIFE OF
MUSIC AND INSPIRATION.
>> REAL MUSICIANS REMIND THE
LISTENER OF A FORGOTTEN SONG
INSIDE THEM AND WHEN YOU HEAR
THAT FORGOTTEN SONG YOU KNOW YOU
GET CHILLS, YOU GET TEARS, YOU
DANCE AND DIDN'T EVEN KNOW WHY.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING
ON TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: THE DEAL CREATING THE
WORLD'S LARGEST AIRLINE BECAME
OFFICIAL TODAY.
AMERICAN AIRLINES EMERGED FROM
BANKRUPTCY TO JOIN WITH U.S.
AIRWAYS.
THE NEW CARRIER WILL OPERATE
UNDER THE AMERICAN AIRLINES
NAME.
THE MERGER LEAVES FOUR AIRLINES
CONTROLLING MORE THAN 80% OF THE
AMERICAN TRAVEL MARKET.
PASSENGERS WON'T SEE IMMEDIATE
CHANGES TO RESERVATIONS OR
FREQUENT FLYER PROGRAMS, AND IT
REMAINS UNCLEAR IF THE DEAL WILL
MEAN HIGHER FARES.
EIGHT OF THE MOST PROMINENT U.S.
TECH COMPANIES, INCLUDING APPLE,
GOOGLE AND FACEBOOK, ARE CALLING
FOR TIGHTER CONTROLS ON
GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE.
THEY SENT AN OPEN LETTER TO
PRESIDENT OBAMA TODAY, IN THE
WAKE OF REVELATIONS THAT THE
GOVERNMENT COLLECTS PERSONAL
DATA FROM THEIR NETWORKS.
WE'LL HEAR FROM MICROSOFT, ON
WHAT'DRIVS ING THE COMPANIES'
CONCERNS, RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
AN ICY, SNOWY MIX MADE ITS WAY
INTO NEW ENGLAND TODAY AFTER
LEAVING A MESSY TRAIL IN ITS
WAKE.
ICE BROUGHT DOWN POWER LINES
FROM TEXAS TO TENNESSEE TO
VIRGINIA, AND COMMUTERS FACED
HAZARDOUS DRIVING THIS MORNING.
AIR TRAVEL WAS ALSO A BIG
PROBLEM, WITH ANOTHER 1,600
FLIGHTS CANCELED TODAY.
PEOPLE WERE STRANDED ALL OVER
THE COUNTRY.
>> LAST NIGHT THE LINES FOR
CUSTOMER SERVICE, YOU COULDN'T
SEE THE END OF THEM.
AND THEY WERE HANDING OUT PIECES
OF PAPER SAYING CALL THIS
NUMBER.
YOU CALL THE NUMBER AND ALL
CIRCUITS BUSY.
IT WAS JUST A NIGHTMARE.
>> Ifill: IN ALL, THERE'VE BEEN
6,100 FLIGHTS CANCELED
NATIONWIDE SINCE SATURDAY AND
HUNDREDS MORE DELAYED.
EIGHT NORTHEAST AND MID-ATLANTIC
STATES ASKED TODAY FOR NEW
FEDERAL CURBS ON AIR POLLUTION
CREATED BY THEIR NEIGHBORS.
THEY WANT NINE SOUTHERN AND
MIDWESTERN STATES TO REGULATE
POWER PLANT EMISSIONS THAT ARE
CARRIED NORTHEAST BY PREVAILING
WINDS.
THE SUPREME COURT HEARS
ARGUMENTS TOMORROW IN A RELATED
CASE INVOLVING 28 STATES.
SOUTH AFRICA MADE READY TODAY
FOR A MASS MEMORIAL SERVICE
HONORING NELSON MANDELA.
AT LEAST 100,000 PEOPLE,
INCLUDING NEARLY 100 WORLD
LEADERS, ARE EXPECTED TO ATTEND
TOMORROW.
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND MRS. OBAMA
LEFT WASHINGTON THIS MORNING,
JOINED ON AIR FORCE ONE BY
FORMER PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH
AND HIS WIFE.
FORMER PRESIDENTS CLINTON AND
CARTER ALSO WILL ATTEND.
THERE'S BEEN MORE UNREST IN THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, AS
GUNMEN REFUSE TO GIVE UP THEIR
WEAPONS TO FRENCH TROOPS.
THE FRENCH PATROLLED THE CAPITAL
CITY TODAY, TRYING TO DISARM
RIVAL MUSLIM AND CHRISTIAN
FIGHTERS WHO KILLED 400 PEOPLE
OVER THE WEEKEND.
WE'LL HAVE AEPOR RT FROM THE
C.A.R.
LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
THE PRIME MINISTER OF THAILAND
CALLED FOR NEW ELECTIONS TODAY,
IN THE FACE OF PROTESTS AGAINST
HER RULE.
THE OPPOSITION HAS ACCUSED HER
OF CORRUPTION, INSISTING AGAIN
SHE MUST GO.
JOHN SPARKS OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS" REPORTS FROM
BANGKOK.
>> Reporter: PROTEST LEADERS
CALLED IT THE DAY OF
RECKONING.
A TIME TO DO-OR-DIE.
WHEN THEIR CALL WAS ANSWERED
ON THE STREETS OF BANGKOK BY
MORE THAN 150,000 PEOPLE.
AND EACH ONE SEEMED
DETERMINED TO TOPPLE THE
THAI GOVERNMENT.
>> WE'VE GOT TO GET THEM
OUT.
WE'RE PLAYING OUR LAST CARD.
>> Reporter: THEY'VE BEEN AT
IT FOR WEEKS.
A ROLLING PROTEST AGAINST
THE GOVERNMENT OF PRIME
MINISTER YINGLUCK SHINAWATRA.
WITH DEMONSTRATORS
CONVERGING ON GOVERNMENT
HEADQUARTERS THIS MORNING,
THE THAI PRIME MINISTER MADE
A SURPRISE ANNOUNCEMENT.
SHE DISOLVED THE GOVERNMENT.
>> MISS YINGLUCK WHO SOUNDED
SHAKEN SAID LET THE PEOPLE
DECIDE WHO GOVERNS NEXT.
BACK ON THE STREETS, THE
PRIME MINISTER'S BIG
DECLARATION HAD LITTLE
IMPACT.
MANY HERE DON'T WANT
ELECTIONS.
THEY WANT SOMETHING COMPLETELY
DIFFERENT.
THE LEADER OF THESE PROTESTS
WASN'T TAKING QUESTIONS THIS
MORNING.
HE WAS SURROUNDED BY A FALL
ANG OF BODYGUARDS.
HIS NAME IS SUTEK AND THE
SILVER HAIRED POLITICIAN
WANTS TO REPLACE THE
GOVERNMENT WITH A NONELECTED
BODY OF EXPERTS.
LATER HE HELD COURT IN FRONT
OF A MASSIVE CROWD.
THIS HIS DAILY ADDRESS.
AND HE SAID THEY WOULD NEED
THREE EXTRA DAYS TO TAKE
POWER.
BUT THE PROTESTORS HAVE A
PROBLEM.
THEY DON'T REPRESENT THE
MAJORITY IN THAILAND.
IF THE ELECTIONS TAKE PLACE,
YINGLUCK WILL ALMOST
CERTAINLY WIN.
THERE SEEMS NO EASY
RESOLUTION TO ALL THIS.
AND THE BATTLE FOR POWER
WILL GO ON.
IN UKRAINE, THERE WERE SIGNS OF
A POSSIBLE CRACKDOWN, ONE DAY
AFTER HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE PROTESTED AGAINST THE
GOVERNMENT.
RIOT TROOPS STORMED AN
OPPOSITION PARTY OFFICE IN KIEV
TODAY, AND POLICE ALSO TORE DOWN
BANNERS AND TENTS BLOCKING CITY
OFFICES.
WE'LL TALK TO A CORRESPONDENT ON
THE GROUND IN UKRAINE, LATER IN
THE PROGRAM.
NORTH KOREAN LEADER KIM JUNG UN
HAS EXPELLED THE COUNTRY'S
SECOND MOST POWERFUL FIGURE, HIS
UNCLE, FROM THE RULING CIRCLE.
STATE T.V. BROADCAST IMAGES
SUNDAY, THAT SHOWED UNIFORMED
GUARDS TAKING 67-YEAR-OLD
JANG SO THANGEK INTO CUSTODY.
THE UNUSUALLY PUBLIC PURGE
HAPPENED AT A PARTY MEETING.
JANG IS CHARGED WITH CORRUPTION,
WOMANIZING AND ABUSING ALCOHOL
AND DRUGS.
18 CURRENT AND FORMER LOS
ANGELES COUNTY SHERIFF'S
DEPUTIES FACE FEDERAL CHARGES IN
A CIVIL RIGHTS AND CORRUPTION
CASE.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT TODAY ALLEGED
BEATINGS OF INMATES AND JAIL
VISITORS, UNJUSTIFIED DETENTIONS
AND CONSPIRACY TO OBSTRUCT A
FEDERAL INVESTIGATION.
THE PROBE FOCUSES ON THE COUNTY
JAIL SYSTEM, THE NATION'S
LARGEST.
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY BEGAN
IMMUNIZING NEARLY 6,000 STUDENTS
TODAY AGAINST "TYPE B"
MENINGITIS.
THE OUTBREAK WAS DEEMED SO
SERIOUS THAT THE FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZED USE OF
A VACCINE NOT LICENSED IN THE
U.S.
SINCE MARCH, EIGHT PEOPLE AT
PRINCETON HAVE BEEN STRICKEN BY
THE POTENTIALLY FATAL DISEASE.
IT'S SPREAD THROUGH KISSING,
COUGHING AND OTHER CONTACT.
THE FEDERAL BAILOUT OF GENERAL
MOTORS IS OFFICIALLY OVER.
THE TREASURY SOLD ITS REMAINING
SHARES IN THE AUTOMAKER TODAY.
IN THE END, THE NET COST TO $10.
AND ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE
DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED FIVE POINTS TO CLOSE AT
THE NASDAQ ROSE SIX POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,068.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": TECH GIANTS CALL FOR
LIMITS ON SPYING; DISARMING
REBELS IN THE CENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC; UNREST ESCALATES IN
UKRAINE; ISLAMISTS COMPLICATE
THE CIVIL WAR IN SYRIA; THE
PRESIDENT OF SPELMAN COLLEGE AND
ROCK LEGEND CARLOS SANTANA.
>> Woodruff: THE GIANTS OF THE
TECH INDUSTRY MADE A HIGHLY
PUBLIC APPEAL TODAY TO REIN IN
GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE.
IT CAME IN THE FORM OF AN OPEN
LETTER TO PRESIDENT OBAMA.
THE CALL FOR CURBS FOCUSED ON
PEOPLE'S PERSONAL INFORMATION
BEING COLLECTED FROM ONLINE
TRAFFIC.
EIGHT MAJOR COMPANIES, INCLUDING
APPLE, FACEBOOK, GOOGLE,
MICROSOFT AND TWITTER, BANDED
TOGETHER TO WRITE AN OPEN LETTER
TO THE PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS.
IT APPEARED IN FULL-PAGE
NEWSPAPER ADS AND ONLINE.
THE LETTER READ IN PART:
IT'S THE TECH GIANTS' LATEST BID
TO SALVAGE PUBLIC TRUST, AMID
REVELATIONS THAT THEY'VE HAD TO
PROVIDE USERS' DATA TO THE
GOVERNMENT.
THE DETAILS COME FROM EDWARD
SNOWDEN, WHO LEAKED A TROVE OF
MATERIAL FROM THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY LAST SUMMER.
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS MAINTAIN
THE DATA COLLECTION OPERATI
HAS THWARTED A NUMBER OF TERROR
ATTACKS.
A PRESIDENTIAL ADVISORY PANEL
HAS BEEN REVIEWING THE ISSUE.
ITS FINDINGS COULD COME THIS
WEEK.
WE HEAR NOW FROM THE TECH WORLD.
BRAD SMITH IS THE GENERAL
COUNSEL AND AN EXECUTIVE VICE
PRESIDENT OF MICROSOFT.
HE'S ALSO SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF
THE COMPANIES THAT SIGNED
TODAY'S LETTER.
>> BRAD SMITH, WELCOME TO
THE PROGRAM.
WHAT IS IT THAT THE
GOVERNMENT IS DOING THAT
MICROSOFT AND THE OTHER
COMPANIES WANT THEM TO STOP?
WELL, THROUGHOUT OUR
INDUSTRY WE'RE CONCERNED
ABOUT THE INCREASING REPORTS
THAT GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE
INCLUDING IN THE U.S. BUT
ALSO ELSEWHERE HAS GONE
BEYOND WHAT PEOPLE
UNDERSTOOD.
WE SEE A NEED FOR REFORM.
AND SPECIFICALLY WE'RE
HOPING THAT THERE WILL BE
CLEAR LEGAL RULES, ALL OF
THIS SHOULD TAKE PLACE
PURSUANT TO THE LAW THERE
SHOULD BE STRONGER EXECUTIVE
OVERSIGHT THERE NEEDS TO BE
ENHANCED REVIEW BY THE
COURTS.
AND THERE NEEDS TO BE A BIT
MORE TRANSPARENCY, CERTAINLY,
SO THAT WE CAN ALL HAVE THE
CONFIDENCE IN THE PUBLIC
THAT WE LIVE IN A SAFE
COUNTRY.
BUT ALSO ONE WHERE WE KNOW
ENOUGH ABOUT WHAT THE
GOVERNMENT IS DOING TO BE
CONFIDENT THAT PEOPLE ARE
STRIKING THE RIGHT BALANCE.
>> ISN'T IT THE CASE THAT
THE TECH COMPANIES, THOUGH,
HAVE BEEN PROVIDING DATA TO
THE GOVERNMENT?
>> WELL, FOR MANY YEARS, WE
HAVE BEEN RESPONDING TO
SUBPOENAS, TO WARRANTS, TO
COURT ORDERS.
WE, OF COURSE, KNOW WHAT WE
HAVE BEEN DOING.
BUT FRANKLY, WHAT REALLY
SURPRISED PEOPLE ACROSS THE
TECH SECTOR WAS AT THE END
OF OCTOBER, "THE WASHINGTON
POST" REPORTED THAT BEYOND
THESE LEGAL PROCESSES, THERE
WERE GOVERNMENT EVIDENTS TO
INFECT COLLECT DATA.
IN THIS INSTANCE IT WAS DATA
MOVING BETWEEN THE DATA
CENTERS WITHIN YAHOO! AND
WITHIN GOOGLE.
AND THAT WASN'T WITHIN THE
CONFINES OF ANY LEGAL
PROCESS THAT ANYBODY WAS
AWARE OF.
AND THAT SHENT A SHOCKWAVE
THROUGHOUT THE INDUSTRY.
>> I'VE BEEN READING TODAY
WHAT SOME OF THE PRIVACY
ADVOCATES SAY.
AND A COUPLE OF THEM POINT
OUT THAT IT IS BECAUSE TECH
COMPANIES LIKE MICROSOFT AND
THE OTHERS COLLECT SO MUCH
PERSONAL DATA YOURSELVES
THAT THAT IS WHAT MAKES IT
ATTRACTIVE FOR THE
GOVERNMENT.
THAT THEY WOULDN'T BE-- IN
OTHER WORDS, TRYING TO COME
AFTER THIS DATA IF YOU AND
THE OTHER COMPANIES DIDN'T
HAVE IT.
>> WELL, THERE'S A PIECE OF
THIS THAT MAY INVOLVE DATA
THAT COMPANIES ARE
COLLECTING.
BUT THE REALITY IS FRANKLY
MOST THINGS TURN ON E-MAILS,
TEXT MESSAGES, WEB SITES
THAT PEOPLE ARE VISITING.
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE DO SEND A
LOT.
THEY SHARE A LOT.
THEY WANT TO DO THAT.
AND THAT IS IMPORTANT IN THE
CONTEXT OF GOVERNMENT
INVESTIGATIONSMENT BUT I
WOULD ACTUALLY SAY THAT MORE
THAN ANYTHING ELSE IS WHAT
STARTED IT TO FOCUS
GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATORS ON
THIS SET OF ISSUES OVER A
DECADE AGO.
>> HAVE THE COMPANIES TRIED
TO TALK TO THE GOVERNMENT
PRIVATELY ABOUT THIS?
BECAUSE YOU'RE LAUNCHING
THIS BIG PUBLIC CAMPAIGN
TODAY.
WE KNOW THE WHITE HOUSE, THE
PRESIDENT HAS SAID HE'S HAD
A TASK FORCE OUT, I GUESS,
STUDYING IT.
AND IT LOOKS LIKE THEY'RE
GOING TO BE MAKING SOME
RECOMMENDATIONS, HAVE YOU
MADE AN ATTEMPT TO SETTLE
THIS BEHIND THE SCENES?
>> WELL THERE HAVE BEEN A
LOT OF DISCUSSIONS.
AND WE APPRECIATE THE DEGREE
TO WHICH PEOPLE IN THE
GOVERNMENT ARE LISTENING.
WE KNOW THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA
IS THINKING ABOUT THIS.
WE KNOW THAT LEADERS IN
OTHER COUNTRIES ARE AS WELL.
BUT IT'S AN ISSUE OF BROAD
IMPORTANCE IMPORTANCE TO THE
PUBLIC.
EVERYBODY SHOULD BE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE BALANCE
BEING STRUCK BETWEEN
PROTECTING SAFETY ON THE ONE
HAND WHICH WITH IS OBVIOUSLY
IMPORTANT.
AND PROTECTING OUR
FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS AND
RIGHTS TO PRIVACY AS WELL.
SO AS IMPORTANT AS PRIVATE
DISCUSSIONS ARE, THIS IS TOO
IMPORTANT TO LEAVE TO
PRIVATE DISCUSSION ALONE.
>> AND I ALSO SEE THAT THE
COMPANIES ARE TRYING TO
EXPAND YOUR OWN ENCRYPTION
TO MAKE IT HARDER FOR
OUTSIDERS TO COME IN AND
SCOOP UP OR TAKE WHAT YOU
HAVE.
TELL US A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
THAT.
>> CERTAINLY WE REALIZED AS
AN INDUSTRY THAT THERE ARE
MORE GOVERNMENTS.
THIS IS NOT CONFINED TO ANY
SINGLE COUNTRY, THAT ARE
SEEKING TO HACK THEIR WAY OR
TAP INTO CABLES AND COLLECT
DATA SO HERE AT MICROSOFT
BUT REALLY ACROSS OUR
INDUSTRY, COMPANIES
INCREASINGLY ARE TAKING
STEPS.
INCREASING ENCRYPTION THAT
PUTS EVERYTHING IN CODE WHEN
IT'S GOING ACROSS THE CABLE,
FOR EXAMPLE, SO THE
GOVERNMENT CANNOT READ,
NECESSARILY WHAT IT MIGHT BE
GETTING.
WE'RE INCREASING THE ABILITY
OF GOVERNMENTS AND OTHERS,
CUSTOMERS TO JUST KNOWS WHAT'S
GOING ON BECAUSE WE
UNDERSTAND THAT PEOPLE DO
HAVE A NEED TO KNOW.
WE'RE INCREASING LOCAL
PROTECTIONS FOR OUR
CUSTOMERS.
WE'RE REALLY STRIVING TO
TAKE A COMPREHENSIVE
APPROACH TO INSURANCE THAT
THE PUBLIC CAN TRUST THE
TECHNOLOGY THEY USE IN THEIR
EVERY DAY LIVES.
>> WELL, AND YOU TOUCH ON A
QUESTION, I THINK, THAT A
LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE.
TO SOME EXTENT THE
GOVERNMENT NEEDS ACCESS TO
COMMUNICATIONS THAT MAY BE
INVOLVED IN-- INVOLVED IN OR
CREATING A THREAT TO
SECURITY.
HOW DO YOU AND THE COMPANIES
KNOW HOW TO STRIKE THAT
BALANCE?
>> I THINK THE MOST
IMPORTANT QUESTION IS WHO
SHOULD STRIKE THE BALANCE
BETWEEN PUBLIC SAFETY ON THE
ONE HAND AND PERSONAL
FREEDOMS ON THE OTHER.
AS SOON AS YOU CAN THAT
QUESTION YOU REALIZE THAT IN
ANY KIND OF DEMOCRATIC
SOCIETY IT SHOULD BE THE
GOVERNMENT ITSELF.
WE NEED CLEAR LAWS.
WE NEED THE KIND OF
TRANSPARENCY SO THE PUBLIC
KNOWS HOW THESE LAWS ARE
BEING APPLIED.
WE NEED TO RECOGNIZE THAT AS
IMPORTANT AS PUBLIC SAFETY
CLEARLY IS, WE ALSO HAVE
IMPORTANT CONSTITUTIONAL
FREEDOMS, THE RIGHT TO SPEAK,
THE RIGHT TO BE SECURE FROM
UNREASONABLE GOVERNMENT
SEARCHES.
ALL OF WHICH ARE AT STAKE.
THIS IS A MATTER FOR THE
PUBLIC AT LARGE TO DECIDE
THROUGH OUR ELECTIVE
PROCESSES.
>> Woodruff: BRAD SMITH WITH
MICROSOFT, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
FOR THE RECORD WE HAVE ASKED
THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
FOR AN INTERVIEW.
WE HOPE TO HEAR FROM NSA
OFFICIALS AT A LATER TIME.
NOW, TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC WHERE FRENCH TROOPS
HAVE BEGUN DISARMING RIVAL
MUSLIM AND CHRISTIAN GROUPS.
ALEX THOMSON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS WAS WITH FRENCH
FORCES EARLIER TODAY IN THE
COUNTRY'S CAPITAL BANGUI.
HE FILED THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: NOW IT'S FOR REAL
ON THE STREETS OF THE CAPITAL.
DISARMING THE SELEKA MILITIAS,
THE NUMBER ONE OBJECTIVE SAYS
THE FRENCH MILITARY COMMANDER.
FROM DAWN THEY SET ABOUT IT.
ON THE GROUND, ON THE GROUND.
ONE PISTOL AND SOME CARTRIDGES
OFF THE STREETS.
BUT THESE MEN WERE EVENTUALLY
ALLOWED TO GO FREE.
IT IS THE LAW OF DIMINISHING
RETURNS.
THE WORD SOON GETS AROUND
AMONGST THE MILITIA THAT THE
FRENCH ARE HERE AND THEY AVOID
THE AREA.
WHAT THEY'RE BASICALLY DOING IS
LETTING THE SMALL FRY GO BUT
ANYBODY THEY CONSIDER IMPORTANT
WILL BE ARRESTED.
AND SO FAR THERE'VE BEEN SCORES
OF THOSE THIS MORNING.
ELSEWHERE, EMBOLDENED BY THE
FRENCH BEING HERE CHRISTIAN MOBS
NOW OUT ON THE STREETS, LOOTING
ANYTHING THEY CAN FROM MUSLIM
SHOPS AND BUSINESSES.
IN ANOTHER LOCATION THE
CHRISTIAN MOB ATTACKS A MAN AND
HIS TEENAGE SON SUSPECTED OF
BEING FORMER SELEKA SOLDIERS.
THE FRENCH TROOPS TRY TO
INTERVENE BUT THE SELAKA HAVEN'T
GONE.
THIS IS A KNOWN SELEKA VEHICLE.
THE MEN ARE KNOWN AS SUCH.
THEY'RE HEADING STRAIGHT FOR A
FRENCH CHECKPOINT.
COOL AND CONFIDENT, MOMENTS
LATER THEY CAME BACK.
CIVILIAN CLOTHING, NO WEAPONS,
NO PROBLEM.
THE CROWDS LOOKING ON KNOW
WHAT'S HAPPENING.
>> ( translated ): I REALLY WANT
THE FRENCH TO HELP US.
TO GET OUT ON THE GROUND BECAUSE
THERE'S NOBODY THERE.
EVERYTHING'S LOOTED.
I'M A VICTIM MYSELF.
>> ( translated ): HE SAID IT'S
FOR THE FRENCH TO GET THE
MILITIA'S WEAPONS FROM THE
MOSQUES, FROM THEIR HOMES AND
FROM THE CEMETERY WHERE THEY ARE
HIDING THEM.
>> Reporter: BUT THE FRENCH
CAN'T BE EVERYWHERE.
IN REALITY, THEY CAN HARDLY BE
ANYWHERE BUT THIS IS PROGRESS.
24 HOURS AGO WE WERE ON THE
STREETS WITH FRENCH
PARATROOPERS.
HOT, TENSE AN ENCOUNTER BETWEEN
THE PARATROOPERS AND THE SELEKA
VITABLE.USUALLY DRUNK AND STONED
THEY CAME UPON THIS GROUP OF
SELEKA MILITIA.
NEITHER SIDE SAID ANYTHING OR
MADE ANY GESTURE.
BUT THE SELEKA ARMED AND IN
UNIFORM ON THE STREETS OF THE
CAPITAL SEEM TO HAVE DISAPPEARED
ONE Y ONDA.
LEAVING A TERRIBLE STAIN ON THIS
CAPITAL, YET MORE PEOPLE OUT
THIS MORNING TO BURY THEIR
RELATIVES.
A MAN TELLS US HOW THE SELEKA
TOOK HIS TWO BROTHERS AND BEAT
THEM TO DEATH.
>> ( translated ): WHAT WE'RE
SEEING IS THAT THE FRENCH TROOPS
ARE NOT IN THE HOT SPOTS, FOR
INSTANCE AROUND CAMP WHERE THEY
ARE KILLING PEOPLE.
THERE'S NO ONE THERE.
THEY CAN DO WHAT THEY WANT OVER
THERE.
>> Reporter: AROUND THE MIDDLE
OF THE DAY A RAINSTORM BUILT UP
OVER BANGUI, MINUTES LATER WE
FOUND OURSELVES SURROUNDED BY
THIS, WHAT WAS UNTIL RECENTLY
ONE OF THE CITIES MONASTERIES
AND GROUNDS NOW A VAST CHAOTIC
CAMP OF TERRIFIED CHRISTIANS,
STILL REFUSING TO GO HOME FRENCH
ARMY OR NO FRENCH ARMY.
HE TOLD US THEY AREN'T GOING
HOME BECAUSE A KIND OF PSYCHOSIS
HAS SET IN.
ONLY YESTERDAY WE HAD SHOOTING
IN THIS DISTRICT SO EVEN MORE
CAME.
IT'S JUST NOT IN PEOPLE'S
INTEREST TO LEAVE HERE.
CAN YOU BLAME THEM?
A MAN CAREFULLY DESCRIBES HOW
HIS NEIGHBORS WERE HACKED AND
SHOT TO DEATH.
FIVE OF THEM.
HE'S GOT ALL THE CLOSEUPS TO
PROVE IT, WHICH WE COULDN'T
POSSIBLY BROADCAST AS THEY
BURIED WHAT HAD BEEN THE FAMILY
NEXT DOOR.
TO SAY THE FRENCH AND AFRICAN
PEACEKEEPERS HAVE THEIR WORK CUT
OUT IS AN UNDERSTATEMENT IN A
CITY OF LOOTED BAAZARS.
AT LEAST 50,000 HOMELESS,
MILITIAS UNLIKELY TO GO QUIETLY.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UKRAINE VIKTOR YANUKOVICH IS
BACKING A CALL FOR TALKS WITH
THE COUNTRY'S OPPOSITION, IN AN
ATTEMPT TO QUELL WEEKS OF
PROTESTS.
TENSIONS ARE RUNNING HIGH IN
KIEV TONIGHT, HOWEVER, AS PRO-
EUROPE DEMONSTRATORS ARE
BARRICADING PROTEST CAMPS WHICH
POLICE HAVE THREATENED TO
DISPERSE.
ON SUNDAY, A PARTY-LIKE
ATMOSPHERE PREVAILED IN THE
UKRAINIAN CAPITAL, KIEV.
SEVERAL HUNDRED THOUSAND PEOPLE-
- ANGRY OVER WHAT THEY SEE AS
THE GOVERNMENT'S TILT TOWARD
RUSSIA AND AWAY FROM EUROPE--
DEMANDED THE GOVERNMENT'S
RESIGNATION.
IT WAS THE LARGESTROWD C YET.
THE NIGHT ENDED WITH PROTESTERSF
VLADIMIR LENIN.
TODAY, SIGNS OF A NEW CRACKDOWN
APPEARED.
RIOT TROOPS ENCIRCLED SOME CAMP
SITES, AND EVENTUALLY BEGAN
DISMANTLING PROTESTERS'
BARRICADES.
OPPOSITION LEADERS WARNED THEIR
FOLLOWERS NOT TO PROVOKE THE
POLICE.
>> ( translated ): IN ANY CASE,
DON'T TOUCH THE POLICE, DON'T
BEAT THEM.
IF THEY DESTROY OUR CAMPS, WE'LL
GO FOR NEW BARRICADES AND SET
THEM UP TOMORROW.
>> Ifill: ELSEWHERE, MASKED MEN
ARMED WITH GUNS RAIDED THE PARTY
HEADQUARTERS OF A JAILED
OPPOSITION LEADER, YULIA
TYMOSHENKO.
AND, A STATE PROSECUTOR WARNED
PROTEST LEADERS THEY FACE
ARREST.
>> ( translated ): THE CALLS OF
RALLY ORGANIZERS SHOW TOTAL
DISRESPECT TO LAW AND A DESIRE
TO SATISFY THEIR POLITICAL
AMBITIONS FOR ANY PRICE.
BUT PARTICULAR POLITICIANS, WHEN
BUT IT WON'T WORK.
IF THEY IGNORE THE ENFORCEMENT
OF JUDGES' VERDICTS, DISRESPECT
THE LAW AND THE CONSTITUTION OF
UKRAINE, THEY'LL BE HELD
RESPONSIBLE.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT VIKTOR
YANUKOVICH ANNOUNCED HE'LL MEET
WITH HIS PREDECESSORS TOMORROW
TO DISCUSS THE CRISIS.
FOR MORE ON THE LATEST
DEVELOPMENTS WE TURN TO A
REPORTER COVERING THE UNREST IN
UKRAINE, DAVID HERSZENHORN,
MOSCOW BUREAU CHIEF FOR THE
"NEW YORK TIMES."
HE'S IN KIEV TONIGHT.
I SPOKE WITH HIM A SHORT WHILE
AGO.
>> DAVID T WAS A PRETTY
VIGOROUS GOVERNMENT MUSHBACK
TODAY Z THAT CALM THE
PROTEST AT ALL.
>> NO, THINGS HAVE GOTTEN
QUITE OMINOUS HERE.
THINGS ARE VERY TENSE,
POLICE HAVE SURROUNDED MANY
OF THE ENCAMPMENTS THAT THE
EXUBERANT PROTESTS ESTABLISHED
THROUGHOUT THE GOVERNMENT
QUARTER SUNDAY NIGHT, AFTER
THE HUGE RAL EVE HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE.
THERE ARE A LOT OF QUESTIONS
WHERE THIS GOES FROM HERE.
PROTESTORS ARE BRACING FOR A
CRACKDOWN.
WE SEE A LOT OF DIPLOMATIC
MANEUVERING HAPPENING NOW
BEHIND THE SCENES.
>> Ifill: WE HAVE HEARD A
LOT ABOUT THE DEMANDS OF
PROT TESTERS THAT THE
GOVERNMENT WILL RESIGN, I'M
ASSUMING THERE IS NO SIGN OF
IT.
>> THAT IS NO END
DID-- INDICATION.
THE PRESIDENT SAID HE WOULD
TALK WITH THE THREE PRED
CERTIFICATESES OF UKRAINE TO
DISCUSS WHAT MIGHT BE A WAY
FORWARD HERE.
AS PART OF THAT HE SEEMED TO
CREATE AN OPENING FOR TALKS
WITH PROTEST LEADERS BUT
CLOSED THAT QUITE QUICKLY AS
SECURITY FORCES RAIDED THE
HEADQUARTERS OF ONE OF THE
MAIN OPPOSITION PARTIES.
THEY'VE ANNOUNCED AN
INVESTIGATION INTO POSSIBLE
TRO SON CHARGES.
AGAIN THE POLICE HAVE MOVED
IN TO FORMATION THROUGHOUT
THE CITY.
ALL SENDING SOME VERY DARK
SIGNALS ABOUT WHERE THINGS
ARE HEADED.
>> THE U.S. ROLE, YOU TALK
ABOUT DIPLOMATIC MANEUVERING,
WHAT IS -- IN TRYING TO URGE
THE UKRAINE BACK TO THE EU.
>> WE SAW QUITE A BIT OF
DISCUSSION.
THE JOE BIDEN URGED HIM NOT
TOWN LEASH FORCE ON THE
DEMONSTRATORS.
WE SAW HOW BADLY THINGS WENT
WHEN THERE WAS A POLICE
CRACKDOWN ON INDEPENDENCE
SQUARE ON NOVEMBER 30th.
THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF
STATE WAS IN MOSCOW PLEADING
WITH KREMLIN OFFICIALS TO
HELP BRING THIS SITUATION TO
SOME SORT OF SOLUTION TO
HELP UKRAINE FIND A PATH
BACK TO GETTING ECONOMIC AID
PACKAGE THAT IT NEEDS FROM
THE INTERNATIONAL MONITOR
FUND.
OF COURSE RUSSIA IS KEEN ON
MINUTE TAKENING ITS
INFLUENCE HERE.
THEY ARE SAID TO BE
PREPARING THEIR OWN RESCUE
PACKAGE.
BUT  THERE
ARE THOUSANDS OF PROTESTORS
AND THOUSANDS OF RYEOUT
POLICE MASSING ON THE
STREETS.
>> Ifill: IS THERE ANYONE IN
A POSITION TO BROKER SOME
SORT OF AN AGREEMENT?
>> NOT RIGHT NOW.
IT SEEMS UNTIL THIS UNREST
SETS WE'RE WELL INTO THE
THIRD WEEK OF THIS WIDENING
CIVIL DISTURBANCE HERE,
UNTIL THAT CALLS DOWN, IT
DOESN'T SEEM THAT ANY
SOLUTION IS POSSIBLE.
AND THE QUESTION BECOMES
WHAT ARE THE PROTESTORS
WILLING TO ACCEPT.
AS YOU SAID, THEY DEMANDED
THE RESIGNATION OF THE
GOVERNMENT.
THEY WOULD LIKE TO SEE SOME
ARRESTED PROTESTORS RELEASED
BUT THERE IS NO SIGN ON
MR. YANUKOVICH'S SIDE THAT
HE IS WILLING TO STEP DOWN
OR FIRE THE PRIME MINISTER
AND THE REST OF THE CABINET.
SO WE ARE REALLY AT A STAND
STILL WAITING TO SEE WHERE
THINGS TURN.
>> Ifill: IS THERE ANY HOPE
TO BE FOUND IN THESE
PROPOSED ROUND TABLE CAULKS?
>> WELL, AGAIN, IT'S HARD TO
SEE HOW THEY TALK WHEN THE
PARTY HEADQUARTERS OF
FATHERLAND, THIS IS THE
PARTY OF TYMOSHENKO, THE
FORMER PRIME MINISTER TODAY,
THE COMPUTER SERVICES WERE
TAKEN OUT, IT IS VERY HARD
TO FIT A ROUND TABLE IN
SQUARE JAIL CELL AND
COMPLAINED TODAY THAT REALLY
THE GOVERNMENT IS NOT TAKING
NECESSARY STEPS TO MAKE
TALKS LIKE THAT FRUITFUL AND
POSSIBLE.
>> Ifill: A BLEAK AND SNOWY
NIGHT IN KIEV, DAVID HORZEN
HORN THANK YOU FOR JOIN UG
US.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO ANOTHER AREA
OF CONFLICT, SYRIA, WHERE THE
UPRISING HAS REACHED ITS 1,000th
DAY.
RECENTLY, CHIEF  FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTED ON DISARRAY AMONG THE
WESTERN-BACKED REBELS.
TONIGHT, SHE LOOKS AT THE
ISLAMIST FIGHTERS WHO ARE
GAINING TRACTION, THROUGH THE
EYES OF A JOURNALIST WITH
UNUSUAL ACCESS TO THE AL QAEDA-
LINKED GROUPS.
>> FOR MORE THAN A YEAR THE
BORER DCROSSING FROM TURKEY,
A VITAL LIFELINE FOR SYRIA'S
REBELS WAS CONTROLLED BY THE
ANTI-ASSAD FREE SYRIAN ARMY.
BUT SATURDAY A NEWLY FORMED
ALLIANCE OF ISLAMIST REBELS
CALLING ITSELF THE ISLAMIC
FRONT TOOK CHARGE.
IT WAS THE LATEST BLOW TO
THE MODERATE FORCES BACKED
BY THE U.S. WHICH IN
INITIALLY LEAD THE ARMED
INSURGENCY ARISING FROM SIR
WHY'S 2011 CIVILIAN
PROTESTS.
AS THE CIVIL WAR HAS GROUND
ON, RADICALLIZATION AMONG
NATIVE SYRIAN REBELS HAS
GROWN.
AND THE CONFLICT HAS
ATTRACTED FOREIGN JIHADIST
FIGHTERS FROM THROUGHOUT THE
ARAB AND MUSLIM WORLD.
SO RATHER THAN A COHERENT
FORCE OPPOSING ASSAD, THERE
IS AN ARRAY OF REBEL GROUPS
ON THE MODERATE TO EXTREMIST
SPECTRUM.
THE FREE SYRIAN ARMY OR FSA,
THE NEW ISLAMIC FRONT
INCLUDING ISLAMIST GROUPS
ONCE ALLIED WITH THE FSA.
THE AL QAEDA LINK ZURDIAN
GROWN AL NICE RA AND ITS AL
QAEDA IRAQI PARENT THE
ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND AL
SHAM.
AMONG THE FEW WESTERN
JOURNALISTS WHO HAVE HAD
ACCESS TO REPORT IN DEPTH ON
THESE GROUPS HAS BEEN RANIA
ABOUZEID, NOW A CONTRIBUTOR
TO THE "NEW YORKER"
MAGAZINE.
I SPOKE WITH HER FRIDAY IN
WASHINGTON.
RANIA, THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> YOU HAVE BEEN UP CLOSE
REPORTING ON A COUPLE OF
THESE MAJOR REBEL GROUPS,
BOTH THE MODERATE FREE
SYRIAN ARMY THAT THE U.S.
BACKS AND ALSO SOME OF THE
AL QAEDA LINKED FORCES.
WHY DO YOU THINK THE AL
QAEDA-LINKED FORCES HAVE
GAINED THE ASCENDANCY?
>> WELL, THERE ARE TWO AL
QAEDA AFFILIATES, THE
ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND AL
SHAM, THE, AND THE OTHER ONE
AL NOUSRA, AND THAT TENDS TO
BE MORE SYRIAN.
IT HAS SIR YEN LEADERSHIP.
THE OTHER ONE HAS IRAQI
LEADERSHIP.
>> AND THE KINDS OF FIGHTERS
THAT ARE ATTRACTED TO AL NOU
ASK RA TO THE FREE SYRIAN
ARMY, HOWDIFFORE
RELIGIOUS TILT.
THEY'RE ALSO ATTRACTED TO
JAB AT AL NOUS RA BECAUSE IT
SEEMS TO BE MORE OF A STATUS
SYMBOL TO BE ACCEPTED
BECAUSE THEY ARE VERY
SCHREKTIVE IN TERMS OF WHO
THEY TAKE.
AND THEY HAVE DISCIPLINE
WHICH IS SOMETHING THAT THE
OTHER FREE SYRIAN ARMY UNITS
OFTEN LACK.
>> AND HOW DIFFERENT ARE
THEY IN THEIR IDEOLOGY.
>> WELL, EVEN SOME GROUPS
THAT IDENTIFY THEMSELVES AS
FREE SYRIAN ARMY ARE
ISLAMISTS AND THEY ALSO WANT
AN ISLAMIC STATE.
SO YOU KNOW, IT'S A VERY
SORT OF BLURRY PICTURE.
AND THIS PICTURE OF ISLAMISM
IF YOU LIKE WITHIN THE
SYRIAN ARMED DEPOSITION.
>> TELL US ABOUT YOUR OWN
PERSONAL ENCOUNTERS.
YOU CROSSED INTO SYRIA AND
YOU WENT TO SEE, I THINK YOU
CALLED HIM A SHARIA LAW
OFFICER WITH AL NOUSRA NEAR
ALEPPO.
>> THEY WERE VERY
CLOAK-AND-DAGGER.
I KROSD THE BORDER.
HE TOLD ME TO MEET A
PARTICULAR MAN.
HI HEAT HIM B I ASKED FOR
HIM.
WE WERE IN A CAR.
WENDTED UP ON THIS ABANDONED
ROAD AND THERE WAS ONLY
ANOTHER VEHICLE THERE.
A GUY WAY BLACK SCARFVER O
HIS FACE WAS ACTUALLY
WEARING A BALACLAVA BUT HIS
FACE WAS COVERED JUST OPENED
THE BACK DOOR, GOT IN,
DIDN'T SAY A WORD.
HE DIDN'T EVEN IDENTIFY
HIMSELF.
AND I HAD TO ASK HIM, ARE
YOU --
>> DID YOU FEEL SAFE?
>> THAT SOUNDS LIKE A
CLASSIC SORT OF JOURNALIST
KIDNAPPING SCENE.
>> I DID, BECAUSE I KNEW WHO
HAD SENT ME, WHO HAD BEEN
THE INTERMEDIARY, I TRUSTEDRY.
>> NOW GIVEN-- GIVEN THEIR
VIEWS ABOUT THE WEST,
WESTERN MEDIA AND WOMEN, HOW
DID YOU-- HOW DO YOU THINK
YOU GOT THEM TO TRUST YOU?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I'VE BEEN
COVERING SYRIA SINCE IT
STARTED.
YOU KNOW, I STILL HAVE TO
GET SOMEBODY TO SORT OF
VOUCH FOR ME.
BECAUSE THE ACQUISITION OF
SPY FLIES AROUND VERY EASILY,
IT STILL FLIES AROUND SO
OFTEN IS FAMILIARITY WITH MY
WORK AND WHAT I'M DOING AND
JUST PHYSICALLY THAT I'M IN
THESE PLACES THAT I'M IN.
>> HOW DO THEY TREAT YOU AS
A WOMAN.
>> SOMETIMES THERE ARE SMALL
TELLING THINGS.
LIKE I WAS ONCE CLIMBING A
HILL WITH AN ISLAMIST
FIGHTER AND I NEEDED A
LITTLE BIT OF HELP, I'M NOT
THE FITTEST PERSON.
RATHER THAN EXTEND HIS HAND
HE EXTENDED THE BARREL OF
HIS WEAPON, BECAUSE AS A
CONSERVATIVE MUSLIM HE
WOULDN'T TOUCH THE HAND OF A
WOMAN WHO WAS NOT A CLOSE
RELATIVE.
>> THERE IS A VERY-- THERE'S
A CLEAR DISTINCTION BETWEEN
THE FOREIGN MEMBERS OF AL
NOUSRA AND THE SYRIAN
MEMBERS.
I CAN FIT WITH THE SYRIAN
MEMBER, THEY WILL SIT WITH
ME, THEY WILL LOOK ME IN THE
EYE AND WE CAN HAVE A
CONVERSATION.
THE FOREIGNERS WON'T LOOK AT
ME.
IF THEY TALK TO ME, THEY
WILL TURN TEAR BACK TO ME OR
TURN TO THE SIDE.
AND THEY'RE MUCH, MUCH MORE
CONSERVATIVE.
>> YOU MENTIONED THIS ONE
PRO VENTION CAPITOL THAT HAS
FALLEN UP TO THE REBELS.
AL NEWS RA WAS THE SPEARHEAD
OF THE FORCE THAT WENT IN
THERE, ONE OF THEM.
HOW ARE THEY GOVERNING.
>> A COUPLE OF WEEKS AFTER
IT FELL, THEY WERE ONE OF
ABOUT, I THINK THERE WERE
ABOUT HALF A DOZEN ISLAMIST
GROUPS THAT WERE RULING THE
CITY.
AND YOU KNOW, THEY HAD MEN
POSTED OUTSIDE THE TWO
CHURCHES, FOR EXAMPLE.
THEY HAD --
>> TO PRESERVE THEM.
>> TO PRESERVE THEM, NOBODY
TOUCH THE CHURCHES.
A FEW MONTHS OVER THAT THE
ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND AL
SHAM CAME TO BE THE RULER,
THE THEY DESECRATED THE
CHURCHES.
AND SO VERY, VERY DIFFERENT
SORT OF APPROACH TO
GOVERNANCE.
>> SO YOU ARE SEEING A
GROWING RADICALLIZATION OR
GROWING ASCENDANCY OF MORE
RED CALL FORCES.
>> BUT THERE ARE FORCES THAT
ARE TAKING THEM RISKMENT TAKING
THEM ON MILITARILY.
THERE ARE UNITS OF THE FREE
SYRIAN ARMY, OTHER ISLAMISTS
WHO ARE TAKING THEM ON.
AND THERE ARE ALSO CIVIL
SOCIETY ACTIVISTS WHO ARE
TAKING THEM ON.
THEY DO THAT AT GREAT
PERSONAL RISK IN A CITY
WHICH IS BASICALLY RULED BY
AL QAEDA.
SO YOU DO HAVE PUSHBACK IN
MANY DIFFERENT FORMS INSIDE
SYRIA.
>> A FIGHTER SAID TO YOU THE
FIGHT AFTER THE FALL OF
BASHAR ASSAD AMONG THE REBEL
GROUPS WILL BE HARDER THAN
THIS ONE, DO YOU THINK HE'S
RIGHT.
>> THAT HAS ALWAYS BEEN THE
CASE.
THERE WAS ALWAYS THIS IDEA
THAT THERE WAS GOING TO BE A
REVOLUTION AFTER A
REVOLUTION.
THAT IS HOW THEY PUT IT AND
THEY WOULD PUT IT IN THOSE
TERMS THAT AFTER THEY FINISH
WITH THE PRIMARY ENEMY, THEY
WOULD TURN TO SOME OF THE
OTHER GROUPS THAT WERE IN
THE MIDST WHOSE IDEOLOGIES
THEY DIDN'T NECESSARILY
ACCEPT.
THE THING IS THAT NOW THAT
OVER IS NOW.
>> AND THESE ARE THE OOM
QUITEA-- ARE THE ONES THE
UNITED STATES AND CERTAINLY
EUROPE AND RUSSIA DO NOT
WANT TO GET THEIR HANDS ON
WEAPONS AND DO NOT WANT TO
TAKE OVER EVEN APART OF
SYRIA.
WHAT IS THEIR VIEW OF WHAT A
POST ASSAD SYRIA WOULD LOOK
LIKE, PARTICULARLY IN TERMS
OF HOW MINORITIES WOULD BE
TREATED?
>> THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ
IS ANTAGONIZING EVERYBODY.
THEY BASICALLY HATE
EVERYBODY WHO DOESN'T AGREE
WITH THEM AND THAT WILL YOUS
OTHER ISLAMISTS WHO THEY
ACCUSE OF BEING INFIDELS IF
THEY DISAGREE WITH THEIR
ULTRA CONSERVATIVE VIEW OF
WHAT AN ISLAMIC SOCIETY
SHOULD LOOK LIKE.
SO YOU CAN PUT THEM ASIDE.
S AL NOUSRA HAS A MORE
NUANCED APPROACH.
THEY SAY CRISTIANCE, FOR
EXAMPLE, ARE PEOPLE OF THE
BOOK AND SHOULD BE TREATED,
RESPECTED AS PEOPLE OF THE
BOOK.
THE ALLOWITES ARE DIFFERENT,
THEY SAY THEY ARE INFIDELS
AND INCREASINGLY NOW THEY
ARE SAYING THAT, TY'REHE
PERCEIVING THE ALLOWITE
COMMUNITY AS ONE BLOC
STICKING WITH THE REGIME.
IF YOU ARE ALLOWITE YOU WILL
BE A SUM SOED TO HAVE A
POLITICAL POSITION AND THAT
IS SADLY BECOMING THE CASE.
>> IT IS A GRIM PICTURE, A
GRIM PROSPECT.
>> IT IS.
>>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> TOMORROW NIGHT MARGARET
REPORTS ON REFUGEES FLEEING
SYRIA AND ENDING UP IN IRAQ.
>> Ifill: NEXT, A CONVERSATION
ABOUT CHARTING A DIFFERENT
COURSE IN THE WORLD OF HIGHER
EDUCATION.
TODAY, SPELMAN'S BEVERLY DANIEL
TATUM BECAME ONE OF FOUR COLLEGE
PRESIDENTS AND THE FIRST FROM A
HISTORICALLY BLACK INSTITUTION
TO RECEIVE THE CARNEGIE
CORPORATION'S ANNUAL LEADERSHIP
AWARD.
THE FOUNDATION CITED HER WORK IN
ENCOURAGING WOMEN TO PURSUE
CAREERS IN THE SO-CALLED STEM
FIELDS OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY,
ENGINEERTH AND FOR HER
DECISION  TO DROP
INTERCOLLEGIATE SPORTS IN FAVOR
OF STUDENT HEALTH.
BEVERLY TATUM JOINS US NOW FROM
ATLANTA.
WELCOME, PROFESSOR AT THAT
TIME UP, PRESIDENT TATUM.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
IN FULL DISCLOSURE CARNEGIE
IS ONE OF OUR FUNDERS HERE
AT THE NEWSHOUR BUT I WANT
TO ASK YOU WHO HAS MOTIVATED
OU TO REFOCUS THE ACADEMIC
GOALS AT SPELMAN AND WHETHER
THAT IS APPLICABLE ELSEWHERE.
>> WELL, LET ME BEGIN BY
SAYING THAT AT SPELMAN WE
HAVE BEEN FOCUSED ON STEM
EDUCATION AS WELL AS A
BROADER LIBERAL ARTS FOCUS
FOR MANY YEARS.
AND THAT DOESN'T BEGIN WITH
ME BUT I'M HAPPY TO SAY THAT
SINCE I'VE BEEN PRESIDENT AT
SPELMAN WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO
KEEP MOVING FORWARD AT A
TIME WHEN WE SEE NATIONALLY
INTEREST IN STEM DECLINING.
WE KNOW THERE ARE MANY YOUNG
WOMEN OF COLOR INTERESTED IN
PURSUING SCIENCE.
A THIRD OF OUR STUDENTS ARE
STEM MAJORS AND WE WANT TO
INSURANCE THAT THEY CAN HALF
INTO FIELDS WHERE THEY ARE
UNDERREPRESENTED AND MAKE A
DIFFERENCE TO OUR ECONOMY
AND TO OUR NATION.
>> ARE THEY MAKING A CHOICE
TO IGNORE LIBERAL ARTS OR TO
MOVE AWAY FROM LIBERAL ARTS
OR TRADITIONALLY-- MAJORS, I
GUESS, THAT WOMEN HAVE
TRADITIONALLY PURSUED IN
FAOR OVF STEM?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT, LET
ME BEGIN BY SAYING THAT
SPELLMAN COLLEGE-- SPELMAN
COLLEGE IS IN MANY WAYS A
TRADITIONAL LIBERAL ARTS
COLLEGE IN THAT WE EMPHASIZE
THE SKILLS THAT COME FROM A
STRONG LIBERAL ARTS
EDUCATION.
CRITICAL THINKING,
PROBLEM-SOLVING,
QUANTITATIVE REASONING,
COMMUNICATION SKILLS.
BUT CERTAINLY A THIRD OF OUR
STUDENTS COME WITH AN
INTEREST IN MOVING INTO
SCIENCE.
THEY MAY BE THINKING ABOUT
HEALTH CAREERS, INITIALLY.
BUT ONCE THEY START TO
EXPLORE BIOLOGY, CHEMISTRY,
PHYSICS, COMPUTER SCIENCE,
ENGINEERING, THEY SEE A
WIDER RANGE OF OPTIONS.
AND I THINK THAT'S ONE OF
THE THINGS ABOUT SPELMAN,
THAT WHEN THEY COME TO
SPELMAN THEY ARE EXPOSED TO
FACULTY WHO REPRESENT A VERY
DIVERSE GROUP OF FACULTY,
MEN AND WOMEN, 52% OF OUR
STEM FACULTY ARE WOMEN.
A THIRD OF THEM ARE WOMEN OF
COLOR.
SO THAT THEY'RE A BROAD
RANGE OF ROLE MODELS AND
T
THERE IS NO LIMIT,
EX-- EXCUSE ME TO THEIR
OPPORTUNITIES.
>> BUT MORE BROADLY IS
ACADEMIA, AT LARGE, I READ A
STUDY THAT SHOWED 90% OF
STUDENTS AREN'T REALLY
INTERESTED IN STEM FOR ALL
THE TALK OF STEM.
DO YOU HAVE TO RECRUIT
STUDENTS SPECIFICALLY TO
SPEAK TO THAT OR ARE THEY
SEEKING YOU OUT BECAUSE THEY
KNOW, WHICH IS THE CHICKEN
AND WHICH IS THE EGG?
>> WELL, I THINK WE'RE
INVOLVED IN BOTH.
CERTAINLY STUDENTS WHO HAVE
AN INTEREST IN STEM COME TO
SPELMAN BECAUSE WE KNOW WE
HAVE THAT STRENGTH.
WE KNOW THAT THE LIKE LEE
HOOTED OF GRADUATING IN STEM
IF ARE YOU INTERESTED IN IT
IS MUCH HIGHER AT A PLACE
LIKE SPELMAN THAT PERHAPS AT
A MAJORITY INSTITUTION WHERE
THE PIPE-LINES PARTICULARLY
FOR YOUNG PEOPLE OF COLOR IS
QUITE LEAKING.
A LOT OF STUDENTS COME IN
SAYING THEY WANT TO GRADUATE
IN STEM BUT THEY DON'T
NECESSARILY DO THAT, THEY
GET DISCOURAGED ALONG THE
WAY.
AT SPELLMAN HE-- SPELMAN WE
SEE THERE IS A HIGHER RATE
OF PERSISTENT.
BUT WITH THAT STATE WE ARE
ENGAUGED IN COMMUNITY
OUTREACH LIKE OUR STUDENTS
ARE DOING THINGS LIKE FUN
LAB WHICH IS THE BRAINCHILD
OF A SOPHOMORE AT SPELMAN.
SHE HER FRIENDS VOLUNTEERING
WITH HER IN LOCAL SCHOOLS IN
THE ATLANTA REGION, EXPOSING
STUDENTS, MIDDLE SCHOOLERS
TO EXPERIMENTS THAT THEY CAN
DO IN SCHOOL, TO ENCOURAGE
THEIR INTEREST IN SCIENCE.
A COMPUTER SCIENCE
DEPARTMENT FEATURES A
ROBOTICS TEAM KNOWN AS THE
SPELBOTS AND THOSE YOUNG
WOMEN ARE OFTEN DOING
DEMONSTRATIONS WITH THEIR
ROBOTS IN MIDDLE SCHOOL, IN
HIGH SCHOOLS TO ENCOURAGE
YOUNG PEOPLE, PARTICULARLY
WOMEN, TO THINK ABOUTCAN BE FUNY
MIGHT WANT TO PURSUE.
>> LET ME GET BACK TO THAT
LEAKEY PIPE-LINE IDEA,
ESPECIALLY ONCE THEY LEAVE
COLLEGE.
I SAW ANOTHER MEMBER TODAY
THAT SAID THAT 41% OF STEM
Ph.D ALSO NOW WOMEN WHICH
SAY GOOD THINGMENT BUT THAT
THEY MAKE UP ONLY 28% OF
TENURED FACULTY IN AGO
DEMMIA, ISN'T THERE SOME
LEAKING GOING ON AFTER
PEOPLE GET OUT OF COLLEGE
AND GET THESE ADVANCED
DECREES?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
YOU KNOW, THERE ARE LEAKS
SHALL DID -- LEAKS AT EVERY
STAGE OF THE PIPE-LINE.
CERTAINLY WHEN WE THINK
ABOUT THE SUCCESS OF WOMEN
WHO HAVE Ph.Ds MOVING INTO
SCIENCE, THEY ARE MORE
LIKELY TO BE IN BIOLOGY,
LESS LIKELY TO BE IN PHYSICS.
THERE'S A RANGE OF WHERE YOU
WILL SEE THEM.
BUT THE IDEA IS HOW DO WE
CREATE COMMUNITIES THAT ARE
SUPPORTIVE.
SPELMAN IS A WONDERFUL
EXAMPLE.
I WANT TO LIFT UP THE WORK
OF ONE OF OUR FACULTY
MEMBERS IN MATH WHO HAS
SINCE RECENTLY RETIRED BUT
DR. SYLVIA BOSEMAN HAD A
PROGRAM CALLED THE EDGE
PROGRAM WHICH IS REALLY
INTENDED TO ENCOURAGE WOMEN
IN MATHEMATICS, FOR EXAMPLE,
TO GET BEYOND THE ISOLATION.
IF YOU ARE THE ONLY WOMAN OF
COLOR OR THE ONLY WOMAN,
EVEN, IN A MATH DEPARTMENT
IN YOUR UNIVERSITY, YOU MAY
FEEL ISOLATED.
THE SAME MAY BE TRUE IN
OTHER AREAS.
BUT IF YOU ARE PART OF A
COMMUNITY THAT PERHAPS SPANS
INSTITUTIONS BUT WHERE YOU
FEEL A SENSE OF SUPPORT, YOU
MAY BE MORE LIKELY TO
PERSIST.
WE SEE THAT AT THE
UNDERGRADUATE LEVEL.
>> WAS THIS ALSO WHAT DROVE
TO YOU DECIDE, ELIMINATE
INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS
FOR YOUR STUDENTS AND FOCUS
NONSPORTS BUT ON WELLNESS
ACTIVITIES INSTEAD IS THIS
ALSO PART OF THE SAME IDEA?
>> WELL, IT'S A LITTLE
DIFFERENT.
SO LET ME JUST SAY THAT WE
HAVE A COLLEGIATE PROGRAM
THAT WAS REALLY
UNDERUTILIZED.
ONLY ABOUT 80 OF OUR 2100
STUDENTS WERE PARTICIPATING.
BUT WE FOUND OURSELVES IN A
SITUATION IN DECEMBER OF
2011 WHERE OUR ATHLETIC
CONFERENCE, THE CONFERENCE
THAT WE PARTICIPATED IN WAS
UNRAVELING.
AND WE NEEDED TO EITHER FIND
A NEW CONFERENCE TO
PARTICIPATE IN OR DO
SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
AND WHEN WE VALUATED THE
COST BENEFIT AND WE SAW THAT
WE WERE SPENDING CLOSE TO A
MILLION DOLLARS ON A PROGRAM
THAT WAS REALLY ONLY
BENEFITTING 80 STUDENT
ATHLETES AND YET WE HAD A
CAMPUS FULL OF WOMEN WHO
WERE UNFORTUNATELY MORE
SEDENTARY THAN THEY SHOULD
BE FOR THEIR HEALTH, THAT WE
COULD PERHAPS REINVEST THOSE
INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETIC
DOLLARS-- THAT WOULD REALLY
IMPACT THEIR LIVES NOT JUST
AT SPEL PHENOMENON BUT
HOPEFULLY BEYOND.
AND THAT HOPEFULLY THOSE
WOMEN WOULD INFLUENCE THEIR
FAMILY MEMBERS, THEIR
FRIENDS, THAT WE WOULD,
INDEED HAVE GONE THROUGH A
WELLNESS REVOLUTION AND
IMPACTING SOME OF THE HEALTH
STATISTICS IMPACTING BLACK
WOMEN.
>> AND FINALLY PRESIDENT
TATUM, SPELMAN IS ONE OF ON
TWO COLLEGES IN THE NATION
THAT CATERS SPECIFICALLY TO
AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMEN.
>> YES.
>> WHY IS THERE A NEED FOR
WOMEN COLLEGES ANY MORE OR
WOMEN'S COLLEGES FOR BLACK
WOMEN ANY MORE?
>> WELL, WHEN PEOPLE ASK ME
WHY DO STUDENTS WHO HAVE
CHOICES WANT TO COME TO
SPELMAN, ONE OF THE THINGS I
ALWAYS SAY IS THAT FOR A
YOUNG WOMAN OF AFRICAN
DESCENT, A POPULATION THAT
HAS HISTORICALLY BEEN
MARGINALIZED, TO COME TO A
SCHOOL WHERE SHE CAN SAY
THIS PLACE WAS DESIGNED FOR
ME, WAS BUILT FOR ME FROM
DAY ONE, WHERE I'M GOING TO
BE AT THE CENTRE OF THE
EDUCATIONAL EXPERIENCE, NOT
MARGINALIZED IN ANYWAY S A
VERY POWERFUL MAGNET.
AND WE LIKE TO SAY WE
PROVIDE A LEARNING
ENVIRONMENT THAT IS WITHOUT
THE BARRIER OF RACE OR
GENDER.
AND CREATE AN ENVIRONMENT
WHERE THE STUDENTS WILL
LEARN ABOUT THEMSELVES AS
INDIVIDUALS, NOT AS
CATEGORIES IN ANOTHER
CONTEXT.
BUT AND WILL BE ABLE TO
EXPERIENCE THEMSELVES AS
EMPOWERED AGENTS OF CHANGE,
READY FOR A FUTURE WITHOUT
LIMITS.
>> BEVERLY DANIEL TATUM,
CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR
AWARD.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH, AND I
WANT TO SAY HOW GLAD I AM TO
BE IN SUCH GREAT COMPANY
WITH RICHARD BROADHEAD OF
DUKE UNIVERSITY, JOHN
HENNESSEE OF STANDFORD AND
MICHAEL-- OF ARIZONA STATE.
CONGRATULATIONS TO THEM AS
WELL.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
FIVE LEADING ARTISTS WERE GIVEN
THEIR DUE FOR A LIFETIME OF
ACHIEVEMENT LAST NIGHT AT THE
ANNUAL KENNEDY CENTER HONORS IN
WASHINGTON.
THIS YEAR'S GROUP: JAZZ PIANIST
HERBIE HANCOCK, ACTRESS
SHIRLEY MacLAINE, OPERA SOPRANO
MARTINA ARROYO, SINGER,
SONGWRITER BILLY JOEL AND A ROCK
STAR WHO CAME TO THIS COUNTRY AS
A TEENAGER FROM MEXICO.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR PROFILE OF
CARLOS SANTANA.
>> Brown: SINCE HIS EMERGENCE IN
THE SAN FRANCISCO MUSIC SCENE IN
THE LATE 1960S, CARLOS SANTANA
HAS BEEN RECOGNIZED AS ONE OF
ROCK 'N ROLL'S GREATEST
GUITARISTS.
WHOSE LATIN-INFUSED SOUNDS AND
RHYTHMS, BEGINNING WITH THE BAND
THAT BORE HIS NAME, HAVE
PRODUCED HIT SONGS AND ALBUMS
THAT HAVE SOLD IN THE MILLIONS.
HIS APPEARANCE AT WOODSTOCK
HELPED ROCKET HIM TO FAME AND
CONCERTS AROUND THE WORLD
CONTINUED TO THIS DAY.
IN FEBRUARY, HE MAKES HIS FIRST
CONCERT TOUR OF SOUTH AFRICA,
PART OF A LONG-HELD INTEREST IN
THE CONTINENT.
AND, JUST AHEAD OF THE KENNEDY
CENTER HONORS CEREMONY, WE MET
UP AT THE SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL
MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART IN
WASHINGTON.
SANTANA'S STORY BEGAN IN MEXICO,
FIRST IN THE SMALL TOWN OF
AUTLAN DE NAVARRO AND LATER IN
TIJUANA AS THE SON OF A MARIACHI
MUSIC VIOLINIST.
>> I REMEMBER MY DAD PLAYING
VIOLIN SINCE I WAS A KID.
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU REMEMBER
ABOUT IT?
WHAT DID YOU HEAR WHEN YOU WERE
A KID?
>> IT'S A SOUND OF SCREAMING
CHARISMA.
>> Brown: SCREAMING CHARISMA?
>> OH, MY DAD HAD CHARISMA LIKE
HE JUST-- THE WAY-- YOU KNOW, I
WAS TALKING WITH MY SISTER--
JUST THE WAY HE PUT HIS CHIN ON
THE VIOLIN JUST THAT ALONE.
YOU LIKE, "AHHH," AND THEN WHEN
HE BOW THAT NOTE HE TAUGHT ME
HOW TO CARRY A MELODY.
A LOT OF MUSICIANS DON'T KNOW
HOW TO CARRY A MELODY, YOU KNOW,
LIKE BILLY HOLLIDAY CARRIES A
MELODY, YOU KNOW.
WHEN YOU CARRY A MELODY, YOUR
MUSIC IMMEDIATELY BECOMES
MEMORABLE INSTEAD OF LIKE A
SOUND BITE YOU KNOW SO HE TAUGHT
ME HOW TO JUST REALLY, REALLY
SLOW IT DOWN.
>> REPORTER: IT ALSO SOUNDS LIKE
HE TAUGHISMA AND PERFORMING.
>> YES, HE DID.
I'M VERY GRATEFUL.
MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME ABOUT
CONVICTION AND HE TAUGHT ME
ABOUT CHARISMA.
>> Brown: REALLY CONVICTION AND
CHARISMA.
>> YES, MY MOM IS JUST PURE
CONVICTION.
>> Brown: WHEN YOU GOT TO SAN
FRANCISCO, THE ROCK AND ROLL
SCENE.
WHAT DO YOU THINK YOU BROUGHT TO
THAT SCENE AND THE MUSIC?
>> WELL, I AM A CHILD MANY OF
MANY THINGS, SO THE MAIN THING
THAT I REMEMBER IS MY LOVE FOR
AT THAT TIME, WE USED TO CALL IT
MUSICA TROPICAL.
NOW THEY CALL IT SALSA, BUT
ALWAYS BEEN AFRICAN MUSIC, YOU
KNOW, MUSIC THAT COMES FROM
AFRICA TO CUBA OR PUERTO RICO
AND BUT WHEN I WENT TO GHANA FOR
EXAMPLE IN 1971, THEY ASKED US
TO STAND UP BECAUSE THEY ARE
GOING TO DO THE NATIONAL ANTHEM
AND I STOOD UP AND THEY PLAYED
THE MEN GO, "OOH, WEE, AHH,"
AND WOMEN GO... AND I'M LIKE
THAT'S AFRO BLUE FROM DE MONGO
SANTAMARIA THEY GO, "NO."
>> Brown: YOU'VE HEARD THAT
BEFORE RIGHT?
>> YEAH, IT WAS DE MONGO
SANTAMARIA IN JOHN COLTRANE.
BUT THEY SAID NO THIS IS OUR
NATIONAL ANTHEM AND BEFORE THEY
WERE BORN WE.
>> Brown: AH, SO YOU SEE THE
CONNECTIONS RIGHT THERE.
>> EXACTLY.
THERE IS SOMETHING ABOUT THE
MUSIC THAT REALLY IT PINCHES
YOUR WHOLE EXISTENCE INTO A
STATE OF JOY THAT CANNOT BE
BOUGHT.
THAT'S WHAT I LOVE ABOUT AFRICAN
MUSIC IS THE INTENSITY OF SPIRIT
AND JOY.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE GUITAR?
BECAUSE I'VE ACTUALLY HAD
PLEASURE OF TALKING TO SOME OF
THE GREAT GUITARISTS LIKE B.B.
KING.
>> BUDDY GUY.
>> Brown: BUDDY GUY I'VE TALKED
TO AND I'M ALWAYS WONDERING WHAT
MAKES SUCH A DISTINCTIVE SOUND
>> THE SOUND OF THE GUITAR IS
THE SOUND OF A WOMAN.
>> Brown: OF A WOMAN?
>> BILLY HOLLIDAY, MAHALIA
JACKSON.
SAXOPHONE IS A MAN, GUITAR IS A
WOMAN.
>> Brown: AND WHAT DOES THAT
MEAN FOR HOW DO, SO YOU LEARN TO
PLAY IT?
>> YOU LEARN TO ARTICULATE
SASSINESS, COMPASSION,
ENDURANCE, WISDOM, YOU KNOW EVEN
WITH THE VOLUME OFF YOU CAN JUST
SEE A WOMEN GOING LIKE THIS AND
YOU KNOW WHAT SHE'S SAYING,
SHE'LL STRAIGHTEN YOU OUT YOU
KNOW.
>> Brown: BUT YOU HAVE TO PUT
YOUR OWN INDIVIDUAL STAMP ON
THAT GUITAR.
>> YOU HAVE TO FEEL IT IN YOUR
GUT, YOU KNOW.
YOU HAVE TO FEEL HERE, YOU HAVE
TO FEEL THE CENTER OF YOUR
HEART, SOUL, HEART, MIND, BODY
AND YOUR VITALS IN ONE NOTE YOU
KNOW.
>> Brown: ALL TOGETHER.
>> ALL IN ONE NOTE SOUL, HEART,
MIND, BODY-- ONE NOTE.
AND THEN THAT'S WHAT GIVES
PEOPLE CHILLS BECAUSE IF YOU
JUST PLAY MENTAL MUSIC.
PEOPLE START TALKING ANYWAY.
HOW WAS YOUR DAY.
YOU KNOW A REAL MUSICIAN-- WHEN
YOU PLAY, PEOPLE DON'T TALK.
THEY GO, "OH, I'M SORRY.
I CAN'T TALK TO YOU RIGHT NOW."
YOU KNOW, BECAUSE REAL MUSICIANS
REMIND THE LISTENER OF A
FORGOTTEN SONG INSIDE THEM AND
WHEN YOU HEAR THAT FORGOTTEN
SONG YOU KNOW YOU GET CHILLS,
YOU GET TEARS, YOU DANCE AND
DIDN'T EVEN KNOW WHY BECAUSE A
LOT OF PEOPLE BURY THAT
FORGOTTEN SONG IS THAT WE ARE
LIGHT.
>> Brown: IT WAS IN 1999, AFTER
AN EXTENDED LULL IN HIS CAREER,
THAT CARLOS SANTANA ACHIEVED THE
KIND OF SECOND LIFE THAT MOST
ARTISTS CAN ONLY DREAM OF WITH
THE RELEASE OF THE ALBUM
"SUPERNATURAL".
THAT PROJECT, IN WHICH HE
COLLABORATED WITH OTHER STARS
INCLUDING ERIC CLAPTON, LAURYN
HILL AND ON HIS MEGA-HIT
"SMOOTH" WITH ROB THOMAS,
REACHED AN ENTIRE NEW GENERATION
OF FANS, WINNING NINE GRAMMY
AWARDS, AND SELLING SOME  30
MILLION COPIES WORLDWIDE.
WAS WHAT HAPPENED WITH
"SUPERNATURAL" A SURPRISE TO
YOU?
>> WELL EVERYTHING IS A SURPRISE
TO ME.
>> Brown: EVERYTHING?
>> YEAH, YOU KNOW EVEN THOUGH
YOU ARE SUPPOSED TO SAY WITH
CONVICTION AND SOULFULNESS
EXPECT A MIRACLE BUT BACK THEN
YOU KNOW MIRACLES AND BLESSINGS
>> Brown: WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
YOUR INSTRUCTIONS AND YOU TALK
OFTEN ABOUT THAT SPIRIT AND
SPIRITUALITY.
IS IT YOUR SENSE THAT MUSIC IS A
KIND OF SPIRITUALITY?
>> IT'S NOT KIND, ITS 150% ONLY
MUSIC.
MUSIC WAS GIVEN TO TAME THE
BEAST AS THEY SAY IN THE BIBLE
YOU KNOW, ENTERTAIN THE BEAST
MEANS TO QUIET FEAR AND ANGER,
MUSIC IS TO GLORIFY THE LIGHT IN
YOU.
>> Brown: LAST NIGHT AT THE
KENNEDY CENTER, AS OTHER STARS
PLAYED SANTANA'S MUSIC, HE
JOINED PRESIDENT AND MRS. OBAMA
AND HIS FELLOW HONOREES.
NOTABLE THIS YEAR WAS THE
INCLUSION OF TWO LATINOS-- A
GROUP THE KENNEDY CENTER HAD
BEEN CRITICIZED FOR IGNORING IN
THE PAST.
HOW IMPORTANT IS IT TO YOU OF
BEING FROM MEXICO, OF BEING
LATINO AND BEING HONORED?
>> IT'S EXTREMELY IMPORTANT
BECAUSE ME PERSONALLY BEING
INVITED I GIVE A CHANCE TO GIVE
VOICE TO THE INVISIBLE ONES THE
ONE WHO CLEAN ALL THE SHEETS,
CLEAN ALL THE TOILETS, SERVE
AND...
>> Brown: YOU FEEL THAT?
YOU FEEL THEY ARE THERE?
>> BILL GRAHAM TOLD ME THIS A
LONG TIME AGO.
>> Brown: THE GREAT PROMOTER.
>> HE SAYS-- BILL GRAHAM SAYS,
"YOU GIVE VOICE TO THE INVISIBLE
ONES."
YOU KNOW, SO LIKE DELORES
>> Brown: YOU ARE 66 NOW?
AND I SEE YOU ARE STILL YOU ARE
GOING TO AFRICA SOON TO CONTINUE
TOURING DO YOU SEE A POINT WHERE
YOU MIGHT STOP ALL THIS?
>> NO WAY IT'S JUST GETTING
STARTING.
IT'S GETTING BETTER, YOU KNOW,
WE FINALLY CRYSTALLIZED WHAT
WE'RE REALLY ABOUT.
WE USED TO BE SEEKERS NOW WE'RE
FINDERS.
>> Brown: CARLOS SANTANA, THANK
YOU FOR TALKING TO US AND
CONGRATULATIONS.
>> Woodruff: SOMETIMES THERE ARE
WONDERFUL MOMENTS THAT DON'T
MAKE THE FINAL CUT WHEN WE EDIT
A STORY LIKE THE ONE YOU JUST
WATCHED.
WE'RE GOING TO SHOW YOU ONE
RIGHT NOW.
THEIR INTERVIEW WAS TAPED THE
MORNING AFTER NELSON MANDELA'S
DEATH.
CARLOS SANTANA HAS LONG
SUPPORTED THE FIGHT AGAINST AIDS
IN SOUTH AFRICA.
IN 2003, HE DONATED ALL OF HIS
TOUR PROCEEDS-- $2 MILLION-- TO
"ARTISTS FOR A NEW SOUTH
AFRICA."
HE BEGAN HIS SUPPORT OF THAT
GROUP IN 1989 WHEN ITS FOCUS WAS
TO COMBAT APARTHEID.
>> WE WERE TALKING JUST
AFTER NELSON MANDELA HAS
DIED.
WHAT ARE YOUR THOUGHTS OR
MEMORIES OF HIM?
>> A SUPREME WARRIOR, YOU
KNOW.
ONE THAT CHANGED HISTORY.
ONE THAT-- HE MADE ALL HUMANS
BELIEVE THAT NOTHING IS
IMPOSSIBLE.
AND THAT HE AND DESMOND TUTU
IMPREGNATED THAT IN OUR
CONSCIOUSNESS TO SEE CLEARLY
THE VICTORY IS WON ALREADY.
>> VICTORY IS WON ALREADY.
>> VICTORY IS WON ALREADY,
YOU KNOW.
AND THE ONLY ENEMY IS FEAR.
AND HE TALKED ABOUT THAT A
LOT.
HE TRANSFORMED FEAR WITH
YOUR SUPREME JOY, YOU KNOW.
TO HONOR AND CELEBRATE
DESMOND TUTU'S BIRTHDAY IN
SOUTH AFRICA IN 2006.
AND WE WERE IN THE PRESENCE
OF BOTH OF THEM.
AND IT WAS REALLY QUITE
ENDEARING TO WATCH BOTH OF
THEM PICK ON EACH OTHER.
YOU KNOW, AT THAT TIME
DESMOND TUTU WOULD SAY FOR
GOD'S SAKE, MARRY THE WOMAN,
YOU KNOW, YOU CAN'T BE
SHACKING WITH HER, YOU KNOW,
BECAUSE-- AND.
>> A SIDE OF HIM WE DON'T
USUALLY HEAR IN FRONT OF
PEOPLE.
>> AND MANDELA GOES I DON'T
TAKE ORDERS FROM A GUY IN A
SKIRT, YOU KNOW.
THEY WERE GOING BACK AND
FORTH, YOU KNOW.
AND IT WAS REALLY FUNNY TO
BATCH TWO GIANTS PICK ON
EACH OTHER LIKE LITTLE
CHILDREN.
I WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER HIS
SUPREME ELEGANCE AND
CONVICTION, THEY TAUGHT ME,
LIKE I SAID, VICTORY IS WON
ALREADY.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE MERGER OF AMERICAN AIRLINES
AND UNITED AIRWAYS INTO THE
WORLD'S LARGEST AIRLINE BECAME
OFFICIAL.
LEADING U.S. TECH COMPANIES SENT
AN OPEN LETTER TO PRESIDENT
OBAMA, CALLING FOR TIGHTER
CONTROLS ON GOVERNMENT
SURVEILLANCE.
AND SOUTH AFRICA MADE READY FOR
TOMORROW'S MASS MEMORIAL SERVICE
HONORING NELSON MANDELA.
AT LEAST 100,000 PEOPLE ARE
EXPECTED TO ATTEND.
AND THIS EVENING THE SENATE
GAVE FINAL APPROVAL TO
RENEWING A BAN ON PLASTIC
GUNS.
HOURS BEFORE IT WAS TO
EXPIRE.
>> Ifill: ON THE "NEWSHOUR"
ONLINE RIGHT NOW-- BOOMERS
BEWARE: SOCIAL SECURITY
CALCULATORS COULD
STEER YOU OFF COURSE.
OUR EXPERT TELLS YOU WHAT YOU
SHOULD BE LOOKING FOR WHEN IT
COMES TO CRUNCHING YOUR BENEFITS
NUMBERS.
THAT'S ON MAKING SENSE.
AND WE WANT TO HEAR FROM YOU:
TELL US WHAT YOU THINK OF OUR
SCIENCE COVERAGE BY TAKING OUR
ONLINE SURVEY.
YOU CAN FIND THAT ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, LEADERS FROM AROUND
THE WORLD GATHER IN SOUTH AFRICA
FOR NELSON MANDELA'S MEMORIAL.
IT STARTS AT 4:00 A.M. EASTERN.
WATCH IT LIVE ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE "PBS
NEWSHOUR," THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.